oi parallel parking two words that
struck fear into my heart the moment I
started drivers at The Saboteur that
caused me to fail my driving test twice
well now that I'm a little older and I
have much more driving experience under
my belt let me share some of my tips
with you so that you're cruising and
parking in style okay no guarantee on
style but definitely in comfort let's
start off with the easy stuff the stuff
you probably take for granted or just
fallen into the habit of forgetting to
do if you've been driving for a while
like adjusting your seat this should be
the first thing you do when getting
behind the wheel making sure your seat
is positioned the best way for your body
will make driving safer and less
exhausting even on short trips you want
to adjust the height of the seat so that
you can see the dash panel and the road
clearly if you happen to be a bit on the
shorter side and can't see over the dash
even after doing everything the seat
will allow get a cushion or wedge to sit
on as for the seats incline keep it at
about 100 to 110 degrees I know it looks
super cool when you're leaning way back
like a boss but again comfort and safety
over style folks the headrest should be
adjusted so that your head is right
smack dab in the middle of it this will
help prevent a bad neck injury in case
of an accident
next mirrors starting with the driver's
side once your seat is adjusted lean
left and get as close to the side window
as you can then adjust the mirror until
you can see the rear fender once you're
sitting correctly you should just barely
see the side of the back bumper moving
on to the passenger side mirror here you
want to stay in the driver's seat and
lean to your right until your head is
just about in the middle between the two
front seats now adjust this mirror so
that you can see the back fender to
again when you move back to a normal
driving position you should just get a
glimpse of the side of the rear bumper
finally we get to the rear view mirror
I know it's beginner stuff but this
mirror gets bumped and
repositioned all the Thai it's always a
good idea to take just a second to
adjust the rearview mirror and make sure
it shows a perfectly centered view of
your back window one last thing before
we get to the parking tips and
positioning I can't stress enough how
important this is
there's no beverage worth sipping no
text worth texting or song worth
skipping that's more valuable to your
safety
well maybe Neil Diamond's porcupine pie
but that's it
jokes aside make sure you can clearly
see all the instruments on the dash and
have at least a foot of space between it
and your body your hands should be
slightly lower than your shoulders and
placed on the wheel at nine and three oh
yeah the old steering wheel clock
analogy imagine the wheel like the face
of a clock not the digital kind on your
phone but the old-fashioned analog types
ask your grandpappy about it left hand
at nine right hand at three and there
you go you might prefer eight and four
and that's okay too just remember that
the old 10:00 and 2:00 position they
used to teach is no longer the go-to
because in the event of an accident the
airbag can send your hand shooting right
into your face and what sounds like the
most epic facepalm ever is pretty
serious
you can break bones alright bright side
errs on to parking cue the horror music
okay before we get to the ultimate
challenge of parallel parking let's
start with 45-degree parking you need
this trick whenever you pull into a
parking lot and the spots are kind of
slanted hence the whole 45 degree thing
first make sure you're going down the
aisle the right way the spots should be
slanted down toward you not away from
you hey I've seen people try to park
their car after coming in from the wrong
direction and it's an embarrassing
struggle to say the least next move to
your left as far as you can keep moving
until your right side view mirror is
lined up with the left taillight of the
car on your right-hand side after that
turn the wheel to the right
and pull into the
spot you might have to straighten it out
a bit especially if you have a longer
vehicle the next level up from that is
perpendicular parking this is kind of
similar but the parking spots aren't
angle they're your typical straight line
variety again start off by getting as
far to the left as you can watch out for
incoming cars first the further you are
to your left the easier it's going to be
align your right side view mirror with
the right line of the parking spot then
cut the wheel to the right and pull in
turn the steering wheel to the left and
straight in the car if you follow the
right mirror with right line trick
you shouldn't have to back up and
straighten the car out too much
next up backing into a parking space I
feel like there are two types of Parkers
in this world those who pull in and the
ones who always back in and that one guy
named Peter who walks around in a spider
costume you know Peter Parker parked a
pot of prickly Priuses which type are
you I'm probably a little bit of both
depending on the circumstance anyway
first locate the spot you're going to
back into and drive two spots past it
then and this is crucial make sure
drivers around you know what you're
about to do flip on your blinker and
before going into reverse make sure to
look out for oncoming vehicles from the
front and approaching ones from the back
check your mirrors they're nice and
adjusted for you now right and make sure
everything's clear
you can now throw her in Reverse now
turn your steering wheel to the right
and slowly accelerate backward continue
moving back and start to straighten the
steering wheel as soon as your rear
wheels are in line with a parking spot
keep checking those mirrors so you don't
hit any cars next to you once you get
yourself aligned in the spot straighten
your steering wheel and continue backing
up until the front of the car is lined
up with the others in the row also be
careful not to continue in Reverse so
you don't crash into the curb or Park
car behind you
finally put her in park and you're good
to go and last but not least drumroll
please
the type of parking that studies have
actually shown three out of ten drivers
will park over a mile from where they
need to be just to avoid having to do it
it's even in actual condition parallelo
phobia the fear of parallel parking
first things first make sure the spot
you wanna Park in is one your car will
fit into you want no less than one and a
half times the length of your car found
a spot good here we go
dry forward until your car is next to
the one in front of the parking spot
we'll call it car number one now look
over your right shoulder through the
lower corner of your back window and
drive backward in a straight line once
you can see the back of car number one
in the right corner turn the wheel to
the right and slowly begin to back your
car into the space look into the left
side mirror when you can see the full
front of the car behind the spot and
I'll do this one car number two original
I know now straighten out the steering
wheel and back the car in a straight
line using the right side mirror when
you see the taillights on car number one
turn the steering wheel left and you
should be moving into the parking space
check your nerves breathe you got this
and park your car parallel to the curb
giving car number two and yourself
enough room to drive out again if your
vehicle isn't a standard size you'll
probably need to drive a little further
before you start getting lined up now
what is that really so hard yes yes it
was but once I took parallel parking
seriously and practiced a lot
I had a down pat and wouldn't you know
it third time was the charm and I got my
license I think I remember angelic music
playing when they handed it to me
but that could just be my imagination
it's your turn now what's something you
were always afraid to learn to do let me
know down in the comments if you learned
something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't
burn rubber taken off just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy park yourself on the bright side
of life